


1. Define resistor, capacitor and inductor.
2. List out types of resistors and explain one liner resistor and
one non-liner resistor in detail.
3. Write down the application of capacitors.
4. What is the function of inductor? Explain any one inductor in
detail.
5. What is PCB? List out different types of PCBs.
6. What is diode? Write down application of diodes.
7. Explain PNP transistor in detail.
8. 8. List out different electronic equipment in your day to day life 

in which 9 volt battery is used.



1.
Resistors, capacitors, and inductors are the three fundamental 

passive circuit elements used in electric circuits. Together, they 

constitute the three fundamental building blocks of classical 

electrical engineering. Resistors are components that resist the flow 

of electric current.



2.



3.
Application of capacitors :
i) They are used in the ignition system of automobile engines to 

eliminate sparking.
ii) They are used to reduce voltage fluctuations in power supplier 

and to increase the efficiency of power transmission.
iii) Capacitors are used to generate electromagnetic oscillations and 

in tuning the radio circuits.


4.
An inductor is a passive component that is used in most power 

electronic circuits to store energy in the form of magnetic energy 

when electricity is applied to it. One of the key properties of an 

inductor is that it impedes or opposes any change in the amount of 

current flowing through it.

5.
The different types of PCBs available are
Single-Sided PCBs.
Double-Sided PCBs.
Multilayer PCBs.
Rigid PCBs.
Flex PCBs.
Rigid-Flex PCBs

6.
Diode as a Rectifier
The most common and important application of a diode is the 

rectification of AC power to DC power. Using diodes, we can construct 

different types of rectifier circuits. The basic types of these 

rectifier circuits are half wave, full wave center tapped and full 

bridge rectifiers.

7.
The PNP transistor is a type of transistor in which one n-type 

material is doped with two p-type materials. It is a device that is 

controlled by the current. Both the emitter and collector currents 

were controlled by the small amount of base current. Two crystal 

diodes are connected back-to-back in the PNP transistor.

8.
A nine-volt battery, either disposable or rechargeable, is usually 

used in smoke alarms, smoke detectors, walkie-talkies, transistor 

radios, test and instrumentation devices, medical batteries, LCD 

displays, and other small portable appliances.
